---
layout: post
title: Hot sauce thoughts
author: Feen
---

In various online places I state on my profile that I'm a hot sauce connoisseur.

It doesn't mean anything, only that I have a sincere deep appreciation for hot sauce: all kinds, all types.  Yes, even the Carolina Reaper byproduct which according to Wikipedia, was considered ["the hottest chili pepper in the world"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carolina_Reaper) in 2023 before it was replaced by Pepper X.

I haven't tried *that* yet but it is on my to-do list.

## Why's hot sauce so appealing anyway?  It burns!

There are countless reason it's appealing to certain people.

Some people like a little zing on their food, some others like the sensation it brings them (aka 'mouth on fire').  I like it for the fact its so versatile and effective, not to mention it automatically improves the taste of almost every dish I put it on.

It has gotten to the point where if I go somewhere public and the place is offering food, I ask about hot sauce availability and if they have it: great!  I can chow down on it with hot sauce.  If not, oh well, not a big loss really.

## History of hot sauce

We've been using hot sauce in various forms for a few thousand years.  Some certain cultures and societies make heavy use of these and it is typically to enhance their dishes, just like I do with mine.

I'd go into more detail, however the existing Wikipedia entry on hot sauce is sparse on historic and societial details - history, generally speaking, has never been a strong point for me.  

Maybe in the future I'll come back to this blog post or write up another that is much more quality/detailed.  I will have to make do with this in the mean time and keep researching this as well along with other real-life obligations.

## Absolute best hot sauce

If you're a hot sauce enthusasist, you should know something: [Secret Aardvark is quite excellent for dishes, especially when soups are concerned.](https://secretaardvark.com/shop/)

Any flavor in there will do, but I recommend Aardvark Habanero for those who are just starting to explore the hot sauce world. Otherwise if you're feeling adventurous, take the Reaper, and report back (using the contact info listed on the bottom of this site).

Go wild with hot sauce, really.  Variety is the spice of life after all.